## Last Update

### About CSLB

#### Why?

In a couple projects of mine (all unfinished btw), some of which were games, I needed some kind of a DSL for a specific task. Let's say, for dialogues. I tried using an existing scripting language but they were all a bit overkill for the task, and I had to do some workaround to adapt them into the project. Then I said to myself, why not create a little language for yourself (Which is so stupid like why would you create your own instead of using an existing one. Creating one is far too overkill. But anyway). So I started making a DSL, which slowly evolved into [SlimScript](https://github.com/The2ndSlimShady/SlimScript).
I used it for the job though, but in another project, I was trying to learn how to add basic modding support by scripting so I needed a scripting language. I tried using SlimScript but it was too slow (then I just used Lua). That made me question how the hell are they making these things so fast. After quick research I learned about byte-compilation for the first time.
Since then, I always wanted to create a byte-compiled language. And recently I tried to do so. As I was in the process of designing the byte-code, I wondered why there was no LLVM-like thing for scripting languages. Why is everyone creating their own byte-code format? So I decided to create something like that, in a small scale of course. 

#### How

I'm currently working on the IL, an assembler and a linker for the IL (JASM). The assembler part is nearly finished. Since the assembler collects everything (the symbol informations etc.) the linker needs and puts them in order, I think creating the linker will be much easier. There is no optimization and debugging support tho, and I doubt I'll make those. The project is really small actually. After JASM, I'll start creating the runtime for the generated byte-code, which is I think is the hard part. I hope to finish all those before I die.

#### About JASM

JASM is the IL for CSLB. It's stack based and fairly simple. Here's the concept design I made for it:
```jasm
everything before .prep is discarded

.prep
	org main #the entry point#
	sts 2048 #max stack size#
	stc 2048 #max heap size#

	imp Some/Library.shd #something like a dll#
.body
	#stores Hello World! in ROM, in assemble time. a constant.#
	hello_string: rom Hello World 0x21 ; #series is terminated with ; #
	
	print_call: rom 0x00000084 ; #the function id for c++ callback#
	
	main:
        mov &sp &ecx #ecx is now the start address of hello string#
		raw hello_string 11 #push 11 bytes from given symbol to stack#
		mov print_call %ebx
		sys #for c++ callback#
.end

everything after .end is discarded
```

#### Isn't it a bit too hard to do it all by yourself, with you having no experience and all?

Yeah. It is. Isn't that the neat part? I'm struggling while trying so I constantly learn new things!

## History

- [About CSLB](https://github.com/The2ndSlimShady/The2ndSlimShady/blob/master/updates/About_CSLB.md) - [28.08.2024]
- [Now With the Dates](https://github.com/The2ndSlimShady/The2ndSlimShady/blob/master/updates/Now_With_the_Dates.md) - [28.08.2024]
- [Oops](https://github.com/The2ndSlimShady/The2ndSlimShady/blob/master/updates/Oops.md)
- [Initial Update and Updates Page](https://github.com/The2ndSlimShady/The2ndSlimShady/blob/master/updates/Initial_Update_and_Updates_Page.md)
